# CSCI 462 Blog Introduction

I'm  Benji Duke, a computer science major at CofC. I've been here for 2 years now, and my projected graduation date is December, 2020. I  completed an Associate's degree in Computer Technology in 2010 at  Midlands Technical College in West Columbia, then took a left turn and  joined the Navy in 2011 to become a nuclear electrician's mate. I left the Navy in 2017 to go back to school and pursue a Bachelor's in Computer Science. I've always had an interest in computers and programming. Hoping to use my degree to get a start on a new career, either in security or development. 

# Reflections on FOSS

First I want to cover reflections on reading [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://stono.cs.cofc.edu/~bowring/docs/cathedral-bazaar.pdf), written by Eric S. Raymond. The article covers the development of an open source project, Fetchmail, and how it compares to proprietary software development.

The cathedral is meant to represent proprietary software development, while the bazaar represents open source development. Both models have their pros and cons. The biggest stand out difference to me was the way that debugging is handled in open source development. Open source development is much more fluid by design, in that the people who contribute to the software are often the users themselves. The author has a saying, that "Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." This is true for open source software development because by having a wide array of users, bugs in the software are much easier to find and catalog. A user that finds a bug and is knowledgeable about how the program works can implement a fix and contribute their fix to the code base with the open source software development model. This contrasts with the way that proprietary software development works. Instead of having a core team working on testing and implementing fixes prior to release, with open source development, the users can contribute their own fixes to the code base, helping the development of the product not only for their own benefit, but for all the other users. By having a lot of different users with different backgrounds, the bug fixes and feature implementations for an open source project can happen much more organically and efficiently than in a "cathedral" style development model.
